- Hey friends, can we talk
about the Black Out Day
and how awesome it was
and continues to be,
and how exciting it is
to just see black people
embracing their beauty
and uplifting each other?
It was just so bomb,
and just awesome and I just
want to say a big shout out
to the creators of Black Out Day
T'Von, expect-the-greatest on Tumblr,
along with Melissa,
Blackout Queen and Nukirk,
whites will never know.
I'll put links to all three of them in
the video description box,
and here's the thing.
Whenever black people, or people of color,
or oppressed groups of people decide
that they want to change
the narrative surrounding
their existence and personhood,
(grunts) people always get upset. (laughs)
Always, like without a doubt,
and that's exactly what
happened with the Black Out Day.
It was trending on Twitter,
it was all over Tumblr
and as soon as we
started to get some shine
from news networks and
all over the internet,
there were people who
were like "This is racist!
"Why can't we have a White Out Day? Meh!"
Here's the thing, self love is
not putting anyone else down.
Saying that I love being
black is not saying that I
hate anyone who's not
black or anyone that's
not black is less than me.
The Black Out Day was not
about saying that other people
aren't beautiful, it's
about counteracting those
negative stereotypes and
portrayals that we have seen
throughout history and they
continue to this very day.
Whether it has to do with,
deal with police brutality,
most recently we had a 19
year old kid, Tony Robinson
was shot five times in
the chest, even though
he was unarmed, by a police
officer in Wisconsin.
I made the mistake of reading
comments on some of the
articles about him and sure enough,
people were justifying his
death by saying he'd been
arrested before, he was
a thug, he was never
gonna amount to anything.
We see this happen every
single time that there
is a story involving a
black person who has been
unjustly killed.
The narrative continues
to be "Well, here's why
"they deserved it,
here's the type of people
"that black people are."
And even having a black
president has not changed
how people talk about blackness
or treat black people.
Just take a look at how people
talk about our president
and the level of disrespect
that they give him.
Honestly, it is largely based
on the fact that he is black.
The DOJ's investigation
in Ferguson revealed
not only excessive police
brutality and racial profiling,
but they uncovered these
emails where police officers,
men and women who took
vows to protect and serve
the people of this country,
were making racist jokes
about our president and our first lady.
So, speaking a certain way,
dressing a certain way,
having a certain amount
of money does not make
your blackness more widely accepted
or mean that you're not
going to face adversity
or stereotypes or racism.
The Black Out Day really
was an opportunity to say
"Look, despite the things
that we encounter in the
"world around us, we love who we are,
"and we are gonna uplift
ourselves and each other."
I think what was so powerful about it
was how many people shared
their stories on social media
to say how important this was for them.
To love their hair, to
love their bodies, or maybe
they were non-gender conforming,
or maybe they were
someone with a disability
and they had not experienced a space where
their blackness was included
and they were told that
they were beautiful and
worthy of love.
So instead of the normal
social media etiquette
where people take pictures of
people without their knowledge
and share it and make fun of them,
or make memes about
black people and say just
really racist things,
or fraternities singing about
not wanting black people
using the N word in their fraternity,
which we recently saw.
All of these things happen so often
that a movement like the Black Out Day is
really incredible and so needed.
The same way that that powerful
Janelle Monae quote says
"I will love myself, even if
it makes others uncomfortable."
It doesn't matter that
people were uncomfortable
with the Black Out Day.
We loved it, we know that
we're fly and amazing.
So, I wanted to continue that
positivity here on my channel,
so I asked a bunch of you to share photos
of yourself from the Black Out Day.
I was gonna include them in a video,
so I'm going to show you just some of the
beautiful faces that came
across my Tumblr dashboard.
(jazz music)
Check out the video description box,
I will put a link to
all the people featured
so that you can continue showing them love
and checking them out.
Thank you to all that
participated and supported
and I will see you when I see you, bye!